Common Room, 1970 by MARY JO SALTER
    And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me; and I will make you
    to become fishers of men. 
                                                           —MARK 1:17


        It was the age of sit-ins 
and in any case, there weren't enough chairs. 
The guys loped heavy-footed down the stairs 
or raced each other to the bottom, laughing, 
pushing their luck. But here they all crammed in, 
sophomores, born like him in '51, 
to huddle on the floor of the Common Room.

        In a corner, a grandfather clock 
startled the hour; hammered it home again. 
He would remember that. The old New England 
rickety dignity of the furniture. 
The eminent, stern faces looking down 
from time-discolored portraits. Or maybe some 
of this was embellishment, added later on.

        The flickering, thick fishbowl 
of a TV screen, a Magnavox console, 
silenced them all. There, in black and white, 
gray-haired men in gray suits now began 
to pull blue capsules from an actual fishbowl. 
(At least the announcer said they were bright blue.) 
It was the age of drugs. These looked like giant

        Quaaludes handed out 
by a mad pharmacist, whose grimly poised 
assistant—female, sexless—then unscrewed 
from each a poisonous slip of sticky paper. 
A man affixed that date to a massive chart. 
It was filling up already (Some poor dude 
named Bert was 7; he punched a sofa cushion.)

        As for himself, he thought 
of penny candy in a jar a million 
years ago, picked out with his brother 
most days after school. Or times he'd draw 
tin soldiers from the bottom of a stocking. 
(Born two days past Christmas, he'd always seen 
that as good karma: the whole world free to play)

        A congressman was rifling 
loudly through capsules, seized some in his fist, 
dropped all but one. Not Jeremy? Good friend, 
socked with 15. Two strangers, 38. 
Ben got 120. Would that be good enough? 
Curses, bluster, unfunny humor, crossed 
fingers for blessed numbers that remained.

        Somewhere, sometime in 
that ammunition pile awaited his: 
239. He heard the number whiz, 
then lodge safe as a bullet in his brain. 
Like a bullet in a dream: you're dead, you're fine. 
No need to wish for C.O. or 4-F. 
Oh thank you, Jesus God. No Nam for him.

        Yet he was well brought up. 
In decency, rather than dance for joy 
or call up Mom right then from the hallway phone, 
he stayed until the last guy knew his fate. 
Typical Roy, who'd showed up late, freaked out 
when, it appeared, his birthday got no mention. 
He hadn't heard: they'd hosed him. Number 2.

        Before the war was lost 
some four years later, a handful in that room 
would battle inside fishbowls, most in color—
and little men, toy soldiers in a jungle, 
bled behind the glass while those excused, 
life-sized, would sit before it eating dinner. 
He'd lived to be a watcher. And number 2

        in the Common Room that day? 
Clearly not stupid. Roy became a major 
in Independent Projects. Something about 
landscapes in oil, angles of northern sun. 
By the time he graduated, he had won 
a study grant to paint in England, where 
(so his proposal went) the light was different.
