After a Sunday Morning Visit by GREG BROWNDERVILLE
My grandmother—"Two-Mama"—lived right there, 
a clothesline from my parents. 
I remember Ts of cedar, 
taut wire, and swatting laundry. In trucks and cars, 
many thousands 
of times, I've backed out awkwardly to miss 
the posts—I guess I've even done it since 
she died and they were plucked from the earth, done it by force 
of habit until 
today, when suddenly it's ritual, 
suddenly it's this.

As mosquito hawks hover above my car, 
Two-Mama and her son, 
my Uncle Vance, appear 
in the drive, ghosts or tricks of memory. 
A simple scene: 
their easy grins, those rugged posts that stood 
for half a century on this mangy lawn. 
I remember "coke-top shooters": crude weapons me 
and Uncle Vance 
made out of clothespins, boards, and rubber bands. 
Mine was painted red.

When mosquito hawks lit on the line, we'd launch 
our mini flying saucers, 
magical logos, and watch 
them zoom toward our prey—Vance right beside me 
like we were brothers, 
like he was still a child and spring could last. 
To him the clothesline must have seemed both curse 
and blessing. I was grown before Two-Mama told me 
that as a kid 
he'd back up to a cedar post's dark wood 
and play like he was Christ.

That was before he "lost God and stopped singing." 
The crucifix came true 
as I dreamed his boy-hands hanging. 
Back then, she said, he had "good gospel lungs, 
and sang so you 
could feel his soul and feel that Latter Rain." 
His fear about no sin shall enter into 
heaven woke a wailing lonesome in his songs. 
Listening, I tried 
to dream his voice to life and make it light 
up like a tavern's neon.

She said he dunked "old Blue" in a washtub over 
and over: I baptize you 
in the name of God the Father, 
Son, and Holy Ghost till the dog drowned. 
He buried Blue 
in soft dirt beneath the glowing plums: 
dirt that kept arrowheads like secrets, and knew 
the way from Coley's ribbon-cane down to Gum Pond. 
Vance was eight. 
He crushed a dog's neck and felt the fight go out 
again and again in dreams.

At eight I ran nose-first through sun-fresh linen. 
A blur of boy so new, 
in the bright of the day, I ran. 
The wind was time, and time the matador 
who never drew, 
for all was one bright present. Nothing cost. 
When my uncle died, it was me strangling Blue 
in nightmares, Vance a disembodied voice in my ear: 
I crossed the Cross. 
Going home to hell at thirty-three because 
I blasphemed Jesus Christ.

In a recurring dream, I see him walk 
up to a giant tree. 
I smile and say, This oak 
gives the best shade. Like an air-conditioned room. 
But he can't see 
or hear me as he lies down in the cool 
green light and whistles "Heaven's Jubilee." 
His shirtless chest dries out and turns to soft white loam. 
When I kneel 
beside him, his red beard becomes an anthill, 
ants coming to a boil.

I took the clothesline down three years ago 
but spared a wooden T, 
spared it even though 
it blocked the drive and looked like it was going 
back to tree: 
lichens and birds' nests. It survived on sun, 
arms wide to the weather—survived patiently, 
until I dug it out and burned it one still morning 
late last year. 
Didn't want to, but I couldn't bear 
to see it fall on its own.

I throw my arm around the passenger seat 
like we're buds, look behind me, 
cut the angle just right. 
When dearest facts no longer live in muscle 
memory, 
this is what's left: the forcing it, relearning, 
returning. Soon, I reckon, I won't see 
the ghosts and the ghosts won't see me—we'll end this trouble.
But soon's not here. 
Rough cedar cross, decrepit welcomer: 
I'm missing you this morning.
